Tracking doc overhaul (#10471)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/tracking/tutorials/local-database.rst

========================================

> Tracking Experiments with Local Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tracking Experiments with a Local Database
```

========================================

> In this tutorial, you will learn how to use local database to track your experiment metadata with MLflow. By default, MLflow Tracking logs run to local files,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to use a local database to track your experiment metadata with MLflow. By default, MLflow Tracking logs run data to local files,
```

> which may cause some frustration due to fractured small files and lack of simple access interface. Also, if you are using Python, you can use SQLite that runs 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which may cause some frustration due to fractured small files and the lack of a simple access interface. Also, if you are using Python, you can use SQLite that runs 
```

> upon local file (e.g. ``mlruns.db``) and has a built-in client ``sqlite3``, eliminating the effort to install any additional dependencies and setting up database server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
upon your local file system (e.g. ``mlruns.db``) and has a built-in client ``sqlite3``, eliminating the effort to install any additional dependencies and setting up database server.
```

Get Started
===========

Step 1 - Get MLflow
-------------------
MLflow is available on PyPI. If you don't already have it installed on your local machine, you can install it with:

.. code-section::

    .. code-block:: bash
        :name: download-mlflow

        pip install mlflow

Step 2 - Configure MLflow environment varialbles
------------------------------------------------

> Set tracking URI to local SQLite database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the tracking URI to a local SQLite database
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To point MLflow to your local SQLite database, you need to set envioronment variable ``MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI`` to ``sqlite:///mlruns.db``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To point MLflow to your local SQLite database, you need to set the environment variable ``MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI`` to ``sqlite:///mlruns.db``.
```

> (This will create a SQLite database file called ``mlruns.db`` in the current directory. Specify different path if you want to store the database file in a different location.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(This will create a SQLite database file called ``mlruns.db`` in the current directory. Specify a different path if you want to store the database file in a different location.)
```

.. code-section::

    .. code-block:: bash
        :name: set-env

        export MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI=sqlite:///mlruns.db

If you are on notebook, you can run the following cell instead:

.. code-section::

    .. code-block::
        :name: set-env-notebook

        %env MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI=sqlite:///mlruns.db

.. note::

>   For SQLite database, MLflow automatically creates a new database if it does not exist. If you want to use other database, you need to create the database first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For using a SQLite database, MLflow automatically creates a new database if it does not exist. If you want to use another database, you need to create the database first.
```

Step 3: Start logging
---------------------

> Now you are ready to start logging your experiment runs. For example, the following code runs training for an scikit-learn RandomForest model on diabetes dataset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you are ready to start logging your experiment runs. For example, the following code runs training for an scikit-learn RandomForest model on diabetes dataset:
```
```suggestion
Now you are ready to start logging your experiment runs. For example, the following code runs training for an scikit-learn RandomForest model on the diabetes dataset:
```

> Now you are ready to start logging your experiment runs. For example, the following code runs training for an scikit-learn RandomForest model on the diabetes dataset:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you are ready to start logging your experiment runs. For example, the following code runs training for a scikit-learn RandomForest model on the diabetes dataset:
```

.. code-section::

    .. code-block:: python

        import mlflow

        from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
        from sklearn.datasets import load_diabetes
        from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestRegressor

        mlflow.autolog()

        db = load_diabetes()
        X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(db.data, db.target)

        # Create and train models.
        rf = RandomForestRegressor(n_estimators=100, max_depth=6, max_features=3)
        rf.fit(X_train, y_train)

        # Use the model to make predictions on the test dataset.
        predictions = rf.predict(X_test)

> Step 4: View logged Run in Tracking UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 4: View your logged Run in the Tracking UI
```

--------------------------------------

> Once your training job finishes, you can run following command to launch the MLflow UI. You have to specify the path to SQLite database file with ``--backend-store-uri`` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your training job finishes, you can run the following command to launch the MLflow UI (You will have to specify the path to SQLite database file with ``--backend-store-uri`` option): 
```

.. code-section::

    .. code-block:: bash
        :name: view-results

        mlflow ui --port 8080 --backend-store-uri sqlite:///mlruns.db

Then, navigate to `http://localhost:8080 <http://localhost:8080>`_ in your browser to view the results.

What's Next?
============

> Now you have learned how to connect MLflow Tracking with remote storage and database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've now learned how to connect MLflow Tracking with a remote storage and a database.
```

There are a couple of more advanced topics you can explore:

* **Remote environment setup for team development**: While storing runs and experiments data in local machine is perfectly fine for solo development, you should 

>   consider using :ref:`MLflow Tracking Server <tracking_server>` when you set up team collaboration environment with MLflow Tracking. Read 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  consider using :ref:`MLflow Tracking Server <tracking_server>` when you set up a team collaboration environment with MLflow Tracking. Read 
```
